
Legal Aspects
=============

I have written down this document in a somewhat elaborate fashion. This is due
to my relative lack on knowledge on the subject and this is my first public
open source publication ment as a serious attempt. Also I try to remain clean,
specific and generic in style and choice of outline, due to vast differences in
law, country, state and personal need for information, this is of course
impossible. Google is your friend. If you find some error or wish to clarify,
found me actually violating your rights (accidentally, I respect you and the
law - please educate me!) or feel I left out some important context, mail me at
maildumpert@gmail.com

With all my work, I'll enclose a LEGAL.md, somewhat in style of what most do in
LICENSE.md due to a recent habit of making mash-up applications (mixed sources).

These documents can become a bit large due to software having dependencies on
other software, luckily most often the most recent sibling will take or buy the
license of others and if needed. Most current quarrels would involve hardware
anyway. Concerning algorithms I shall always try and get open-source versions
and inspect implications of the license within the context of my program. If I
missed anything, please let me know.

Subjective
----------

Read information about the licenses in this plugin or program. Cut and paste
interesting quotes from these documents. Do not reference because we don't
keep versioning history of licenses and anyone can look them up because we
specify them here.

Graphviz
--------

Eclipse Public License - v 1.0 (OSI approved)


Derivative Work
---------------

__Eclipse__

_Some open source software communities specify what they mean by a "derivative
work". Does the Eclipse Foundation have a position on this?_

As described in article 1(b)(ii) of the Eclipse Public License,
"...Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are
separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program under
their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program."
The definition of derivative work varies under the copyright laws of different
jurisdictions. The Eclipse Public License is governed under U.S. law. Under the
U.S. Copyright Act, a "derivative work" is defined as "...a work based upon one
or more preexisting works, such as a translation, musical arrangement,
dramatization, fictionalization, motion picture version, sound recording, art
reproduction, abridgment, condensation, or any other form in which a work may
be recast, transformed, or adapted. A work consisting of editorial revisions,
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications which, as a whole, represent
an original work of authorship, is a "derivative work"." The Eclipse Foundation
interprets the term "derivative work" in a way that is consistent with the
definition in the U.S. Copyright Act, as applicable to computer software. You
will need to seek the advice of your own legal counsel in deciding whether your
program constitutes a derivative work.

_Some free software communities say that linking to their code automatically
means that your program is a derivative work. Is this the position of the
Eclipse Foundation?_ No, the Eclipse Foundation interprets the term "derivative
work" in a way that is consistent with the definition in the U.S. Copyright
Act, as applicable to computer software. Therefore, linking to Eclipse code
might or might not create a derivative work, depending on all of the other
facts and circumstances.

_I‘m a programmer not a lawyer, can you give me a clear cut example of when
something is or is not a derivative work?_ If you have made a copy of existing
Eclipse code and made a few minor revisions to it, that is a derivative work.
If you"ve written your own Eclipse plug-in with 100% your own code to implement
functionality not currently in Eclipse, then it is not a derivative work.
Scenarios between those two extremes will require you to seek the advice of
your own legal counsel in deciding whether your program constitutes a
derivative work.

For clarity, merely interfacing or interoperating with Eclipse plug-in APIs
(without modification) does not make an Eclipse plug-in a derivative work.

_I am starting my own open source software project. Does the Eclipse Foundation
allow me to use the EPL for my project?_ Yes. The EPL is an OSI-approved open
source license and may be used unaltered by projects regardless of where they
are hosted.

Code Generators
---------------

This is by far the most interesting case from a legal standpoint/view:

_Many Eclipse tools and wizards use code templates which are included in the
application that is generated. Is the code generated by these tools considered
a derivative work that must be licensed under the EPL?_ Unfortunately, there is
no clear answer to this question. To the extent that the code generated by a
wizard is purely functional in nature and therefore not the proper subject
matter for copyright protection, it could be argued that it is not subject to
copyright protection, and therefore is not a derivative work. An example of
that type of code would include calls to APIs or other technical instructions
which are dictated by functional or technical requirements. Moreover, to the
extent the generated code is a very small part of the final overall work, there
is an argument that such use would be di minimus, and the final product or
application should not be considered to be a derivative work. Finally, to the
extent developers who use the generated code make many changes and additions to
the code, there is also an argument that the resultant application is not a
derivative work. Of course, these are just arguments and not "bright line"
tests, and therefore each position could be subject to differing viewpoints.
Eclipse cannot take a position on this issue, as it will ultimately be a
question of the facts and circumstances associated with a particular use.

About Open Source
-----------------

The Open Source Initiative (OSI) is a non-profit corporation with global scope
formed to educate about and advocate for the benefits of open source and to
build bridges among different constituencies in the open source community.

Open source is a development method for software that harnesses the power of
distributed peer review and transparency of process. The promise of open source
is better quality, higher reliability, more flexibility, lower cost, and an end
to predatory vendor lock-in.

The Open Source model has the technical advantage of turning users into
potential co-developers. With source code readily available, users will help
you debug quickly and promote rapid code enhancements. "Given a bit of
encouragement, your users will diagnose problems, suggest fixes, and help
improve the code far more quickly than you could unaided." (The Cathedral and
the Bazaar, Eric Steven Raymond. See
http://tuxedo.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/)


